12/1/2017:
72 colour pages!

  TODO:
    - \ Add references for dark matter and dark energy in Intro and in
      other places!
    - \ Sort out the references in general
    - \ Add the emulator stuff before conclusion of trigger chapter
    - \ consider the btag track statement? think it's fair...

    - \ Check the weak isospin stuff
    - \ Sort out the signs in the higgs potential!

    - \ Add references to old alphaT searches?

    - \ Make sure the cut values for the correct iteration of the
      analysis are chosen
        - \ put in alphat cut for photons if doing ICHEP
        - \ make sure the HT bins are correct
        - \ make sure the TF and likelihood description is correct
          - \ Get the bit about the number of rate parameters right

    - \ Add plots to the event selection section
    - \ put in the Btag formula method or not? - not

    - \ Go through the systematics section again

    *****************
    Remaining bits to do:

      reduce page count on appendices?

    optional:
      - say something about compressed spectra in results?
      - explain the MHT syst more in the signal model syst bit?
    *****************



    Optional extras to add:
      - minChi optimisation
      - new working point scans?
      - stuff on variable optimisation
      - qcd breakdown from Xtian
      - check the ICHEP approval talk for plots?

STUFF TO REMEMBER I DID:
  - other optimisation (maybe remake? see my talks)
  - \ dPhi vs bDPhi plots (see ICHEP NOTE)
  - QCD method
  - MinChi studies? should i put this here? - probably not but it's
    possible

  to emphasise:
    - optimisation?
    - closure tests
    - variations for systs (e.g. nisr etc)



POTENTIAL VIVA QUESTIONS/REVISION:

- Know the resolutions for the tracker, ECAL, HCAL and pT dependence
  etc.
    - for ECAL pT resolution is better than tracker at 15GeV
    - for HCAL few 100s of GeV before this is true
    - This is important to know WRT start of PFlow section

- Revise: multiple scattering, bremsstrahlung, ionisation
    - in high Z materials undergo brehmstrahlung and pair production
      - Moliere radius is how contained the shower is (small for lead tungstate)
      - small radiation length due to high Z
      - brehmstrahlung goes 1/m^4
        - radiation loss increases linearly with E and goes as the square of Z
        - ionization loss increases logarithmically with E and linearly with Z
      - pair production must happen by a nucleus to preserve momentum, photon transferred to the nucleus. Can't have a 3 point vertex on its own

      - For hadrons it depends on the nuclear interaction length

    - i.e. what is a MIP, how it all works

- Decays of backgrounds
    - what proportion of Z's decay to nus etc...
      -The reason is that the coupling is T3 − Qsin2θW for each vertex (squared for the amplitude/rate).
      Since the neutrinos have no charge and no right-handed state their total relative rate is just 3*(T3^2) = 3*1/4 = 0.75
      For the muons they have RH and LH states and charge. For the LH states the rate is −1⁄2 + sin2θW and for the RH sin2θW. Squaring these and taking 0.23 for the Weinberg angle gives 0.1258
      So the ratio is 0.75/0.1258 = 5.96

- Composition of jets

- ~\ Be able to derive the gauge invariance stuff, like in Robyn and Mark's
  theses

- Properly explain the hierarchy problem (ie in SUSY primer)

- \ Make myself clear on what's going on with charges in the SM group
  theory (ie end of gauge group section)

- \ Difference between chirality and helicity and how that's manifest in
  the EWK stuff

- ~\ how does one choose a specific gauge for the higgs stuff! (see
robyn's thesis)

- how to add nu mass to the SM (for morgan...)

- \ Why do you have to mix the gauge fields to get the physical fields?
  - there's a broken symmetry, gauge fields are massless

===
- Make sure I can show how the multijet alphaT comes from the dijet
  version

- Work out alphaT formula show I can show it's MET equivalent

- Revise basic relativity, what is a transverse mass etc.

- understand how beam halo effects arise 

- read asymptotic paper from Glen Cowan

- make sure to understand the lost lepton stuff for the systematic

- explain why W polarisation effects may be a thing

- describe a linear orthogonal polynomial

- make sure i can describe the subtleties of the fit, ie difference
  between CR only and SR only fit and why the pulls change

- which systematics are pulled in each of the cases

- the ISR correction covers pdf uncertainties

- explain where the excesses in T1tttt come from etc.

- remember about the blank region of T2tt - difference in MET
  modelling between fast and full sim, there is no MET here due to
  decaying directly to a top

- understand PU reweighting procedure

- know something about the compressed spectra improvements

- how tag and probe works for b jets?

Recommendations from Alex:

  - justify why high mass scale events deposit their energy centrally
  - know all the MET filters well!!, ie sec 6.6

Theory
=====

I think the golden rule is if they point at an equation know enough to say
something about where it comes from, or you should know one level deeper than
what you wrote. It's okay to say you don't know of course, but you don't want
to do that too often. In your chapter, I don't see how they can ask anything on
the fermions and forces part, but they could ask about Higgs a little, or about
the hierarchy problem or about unification. Maybe on SMS be able to draw a real
Feynman diagram with a propagator for the models.

Detector =======

Here they would probably ask about fundamental things, like mechanisms for
particle energy loss in a medium etc. Would be good to know what the different
terms in the detector resolution parameterisations represent. Perhaps later in
the reco chapter would be good to know how jet energy is split between charged,
and neutral and EM and hadronic energies. Paul N. was involved in jet physics
so revise the anti-kt algorithm. This might also come up in the L1 trigger
chapter.

Big picture ========

It would be a bit unfair but they might ask you about the state of SUSY in
general. I'd play this as you do a generic search for a missing energy
signature. Don't care if it's SUSY or not, but you may also want to be ready to
discuss SUSY. There was a workshop in Spain recently on whether SUSY is alive.
Buch went. Maybe skim a few slides.

https://workshops.ift.uam-csic.es/susyaaw/program

Since you mention DM, you'd better know the latest state of direct DM searches
and be able to say something about the next generation, so LZ etc. and know
what the neutrino "floor" is since that's the problem after the next
generation.

Morgan might ask I suppose about neutrino physics. Wikipedia should be enough
prep on this.

